- [Instructor] Logging is a fundamental aspect
of a running application.
There should never be a time
when you deploy to production,
or even dev for that matter, without logging.
So let's take a quick look
at how easy logging is, with Quarkus.
Now Quarkus supports many logging frameworks,
and these logging frameworks,
many of which you've used several times over,
if you've ever done anything within the Java ecosystem.
Now by default, you're going to get JBoss
as the default logging framework.
Now it's not my favorite by any means,
but it does do the trick,
and it will serve all of the needs for this course.
Now, you do get standard logging behavior
throughout any of your frameworks,
and if you're using something other than Jboss
there is a handler set up,
so that you can use any of your existing logging frameworks
to get their standard behavior.
Now, configuration of the logs
is actually very straightforward with Quarkus,
and you may find that it's similar to everything else,
which makes sense, because one of the main goals
of Quarkus was unification of configuration.
So, you configure your logs
within your application dot properties.
There's a Quarkus dot log, dot star tag,
and you will use that for all of your logging.
Remembering of course, that Quarkus tagged items
are reserved for the language itself,
you cannot create a property with Quarkus dot something.
So usually, and it continues to be the case,
anything with Quarkus dot is configured by the system,
and logging is no exception.
Now you can modify the format of the logs,
although it does give you a relatively
standard log format out of the box.
All right, let's go ahead and open up our command app,
and let's go to source main Java,
and open up our command runner.
Now, I told you that you get logging for free with Quarkus,
and let me show you how free it really is.
We're going to create a private static final logger,
and this is going to come from JBoss logging,
because that's what you get for free.
We will call it log, and this is going to be
logger dot get logger, and we will simply use the command
runner dot class name, to define it.
And now we very simply can do a log dot debug,
and we will do starting application.
And a log dot debug, completing application.
And let's change this system dot out, into a log dot info.
All right, now let's run our application.
You will see here, second from the bottom line,
that we output our hello, LinkedIn learning students,
which is what we'd expect.
Notice that everything is at an info level,
and the reason it's at info level
is that's the default behavior.
So let's jump back over here,
let me fix my spelling mistake that I just saw.
And let's go once again to source main resources
application dot properties, and let's set our Quarkus
dot log, dot level, equal to debug.
And now let's once again run our application.
You'll see we get a lot more messages out,
because now we're getting all the debug messages.
And of course you wouldn't do this in production
on a regular basis, because it's very difficult
to find anything as you're digging through this.
You can customize which messages come at which level,
I'm just modifying the route logger,
just because it's easier to show you.
But again, you can go in and say, okay,
everything with calm dot Frank Molly,
for instance, needs to be at debug
and everything else needs to still be at info, or warn,
again, that's all built into the framework,
and there is one of their guides
that goes into a lot of detail on logging,
and I encourage you to take a look at that.
So we will jump back to info level,
and we can actually delete that, because it is default.
And that's all there is to logging with Quarkus.